CNV-21826: Configuring VM for DPDK (#58584)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-configuring-vm-dpdk.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network.adoc

> 

Reviewer: Could we add a new section between cluster and VM configuration?

```suggestion
:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configuring-vm-dpdk_{context}"]
= Configuring a project for DPDK workloads

Prior to running a DPDK-enabled VM, its namespace/project must be configured according.

.Prerequisites
* Your cluster is configured to run DPDK workloads.

.Procedure
. Create a namespace for your DPDK applications.
. Create an `SriovNetwork` object referencing the earlier defined `SriovNetworkNodePolicy`.
. (Optional) Run the VM latency checkup to check that the network is properly configured.
. (Optional) Run the DPDK checkup to verify that the namespace is DPDK-ready.
```

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configuring-vm-dpdk_{context}"]
= Configuring a virtual machine for DPDK workloads

You can run Data Packet Development Kit (DPDK) workloads on virtual machines (VMs) to achieve lower latency and higher throughput for faster packet processing in the user space. DPDK uses the SR-IOV network for hardware-based I/O sharing.

.Prerequisites
* Your cluster is configured to run DPDK workloads.

> * You have created a project on the cluster in which the VM is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have created and configured a project in which the VM will run.
```

.Procedure
. Edit the `VirtualMachine` manifest to include information about the SR-IOV network interface, CPU topology, CRI-O annotations, and huge pages:
+
.Example `VirtualMachine` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: rhel-dpdk-vm
spec:
  running: true
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        cpu-load-balancing.crio.io: disable <1>
        cpu-quota.crio.io: disable <2>
        irq-load-balancing.crio.io: disable <3>

>     spec:

Reviewer: To make sure we land on the correct node

```suggestion
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk: ""
```

      domain:
        cpu:
          sockets: 1 <4>
          cores: 5 <5>
          threads: 2

>           dedicatedCpuPlacement: true

Reviewer: There is a BZ we discovered after publishing the upstream docs. We can resolve https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2184914 it here (or we can handle it in a follow-up PR).

```suggestion
          dedicatedCpuPlacement: true
          isolateEmulatorThread: true
```

        interfaces:
          - masquerade: {}
            name: default
          - model: virtio
            name: nic-east
            pciAddress: '0000:07:00.0'
            sriov: {}
          networkInterfaceMultiqueue: true
          rng: {}
      memory:
        hugepages:
          pageSize: 1Gi <6>
      resources:
        requests:
          memory: 8Gi
      networks:
        - name: default
          pod: {}
        - multus:
            networkName: dpdk-net <7>
          name: nic-east

> #...

Reviewer 2: Just a small nit, since I will be fixing these in a separate PR. The OCP guidelines say to use `...` instead of `#...` for ellipses in YAML files.

----
<1> This annotation specifies that load balancing is disabled for CPUs that are used by the container.
<2> This annotation specifies that the CPU quota is disabled for CPUs that are used by the container.
<3> This annotation specifies that Interrupt ReQuest (IRQ) load balancing is disabled for CPUs that are used by the container.
<4> The number of sockets inside the VM. This field must be set to `1` for the CPUs to be scheduled from the same Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) node.
<5> The number of cores inside the VM. This must be a value greater than or equal to `1`. In this example, the VM is scheduled with 5 hyper-threads or 10 CPUs.
<6> The size of the huge pages. The possible values for x86-64 architecture are 1Gi and 2Mi. In this example, the request is for 8 huge pages of size 1Gi. 

> <7> The name of the SRI-OV `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<7> The name of the SR-IOV `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object.
```

. Save and exit the editor.
. Configure the guest operating system. The following example shows the configuration steps for RHEL8 OS:

> .. Configure isolated CPUs and specify huge pages by using the GRUB bootloader command line interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Using the GRUB bootloader command line interface:
... Configure huge pages. In the example below we use 8 1G huge pages. 
... Select isolated VM's CPUs. In the example below we leave the first two (0 and 1) CPUs for house keeping and isolate the rest for the DPDK application.
```

+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ grubby --update-kernel=ALL --args="default_hugepagesz=1GB hugepagesz=1G hugepages=8 isolcpus=2-9"

Reviewer: The values use here and in the following commands need to match some of the attributes earlier used in the VM spec, used in other commands of this section (and maybe even in the PerformanceProfile). We should call those out. @orelmisan would you please help defining the mapping?

Author: @orelmisan Do you have any suggested changes for this section?

Reviewer: Commented in the thread above. We can close this one.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/virtual_machines/vm_networking/virt-attaching-vm-to-sriov-network.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-configuring-vm-dpdk_{context}"]
= Configuring a virtual machine for DPDK workloads

You can run Data Packet Development Kit (DPDK) workloads on virtual machines (VMs) to achieve lower latency and higher throughput for faster packet processing in the user space. DPDK uses the SR-IOV network for hardware-based I/O sharing.

.Prerequisites
* Your cluster is configured to run DPDK workloads.
* You have created and configured the project in which the VM will run.

.Procedure

> . Edit the `VirtualMachine` manifest to include information about the SR-IOV network interface, CPU topology, CRI-O annotations, and huge pages:

Reviewer 3: This is also up to you. I was just thinking when you edit something, it already exists, and just I thought the positive `your` might sounds better.
```suggestion
. Edit your `VirtualMachine` manifest to include information about the SR-IOV network interface, CPU topology, CRI-O annotations, and huge pages:
```

+
.Example `VirtualMachine` manifest
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachine
metadata:
  name: rhel-dpdk-vm
spec:
  running: true
  template:
    metadata:
      annotations:
        cpu-load-balancing.crio.io: disable <1>
        cpu-quota.crio.io: disable <2>
        irq-load-balancing.crio.io: disable <3>
    spec:
      nodeSelector:
        node-role.kubernetes.io/worker-dpdk: "" <4>
      domain:
        cpu:
          sockets: 1 <5>
          cores: 5 <6>
          threads: 2
          dedicatedCpuPlacement: true
          isolateEmulatorThread: true
        interfaces:
          - masquerade: {}
            name: default
          - model: virtio
            name: nic-east
            pciAddress: '0000:07:00.0'
            sriov: {}
          networkInterfaceMultiqueue: true
          rng: {}
      memory:
        hugepages:
          pageSize: 1Gi <7>
      resources:
        requests:
          memory: 8Gi
      networks:
        - name: default
          pod: {}
        - multus:
            networkName: dpdk-net <8>
          name: nic-east

> ...

Reviewer 2: FYI: I updated YAML ellipses in all virt modules, changing `...` to `# ...`.

----
<1> This annotation specifies that load balancing is disabled for CPUs that are used by the container.
<2> This annotation specifies that the CPU quota is disabled for CPUs that are used by the container.

> <3> This annotation specifies that Interrupt ReQuest (IRQ) load balancing is disabled for CPUs that are used by the container.

Reviewer 4: "ReQuest" - I understand that it is written this way in order to clarify the IRQ abbreviation, but are you sure it is valid to write it this way (i.e. CamelCase inside a single word)?
If this is indeed a common practice in technical writing, then I apologize in advance for the noise.

Author: Thanks @yossisegev. Our style guidelines do say " When you spell out an abbreviation, do not capitalize letters in the middle of a word to show the origin of an initialism."

I will update the text.

<4> The label that is used in the `MachineConfigPool` and `PerformanceProfile` manifests that were created when configuring the cluster for DPDK workloads.
<5> The number of sockets inside the VM. This field must be set to `1` for the CPUs to be scheduled from the same Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) node.
<6> The number of cores inside the VM. This must be a value greater than or equal to `1`. In this example, the VM is scheduled with 5 hyper-threads or 10 CPUs.
<7> The size of the huge pages. The possible values for x86-64 architecture are 1Gi and 2Mi. In this example, the request is for 8 huge pages of size 1Gi. 
<8> The name of the SR-IOV `NetworkAttachmentDefinition` object.

. Save and exit the editor.
. Apply the `VirtualMachine` manifest:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f <file_name>.yaml
----

> . Configure the guest operating system. The following example shows the configuration steps for RHEL 8 OS:

Reviewer 3: Does this also work for sub versions of RHEL 8? That might be helpful to specify
